Myers Briggs Music Tastes

ISTJ: Most likely music tastes: rock, alternative, pop. Appreciates the sound and rhythm of the music more than the meaning behind the lyrics. 

ISFJ: Most likely music tastes: soft rock, alternative, indie. Appreciates emotionally evocative music. Appreciates the sound and rhythm of the music more than the meaning behind the lyrics. 

INFJ: Most likely music tastes: indie rock, classical, folk. Appreciates deep, meaningful lyrics and emotionally evocative music. 

INTJ: Most likely music tastes: electronic, classical, metal. Likes dark and structurally complex pieces of music. Appreciates meaningful lyrics. 

ISTP: Most likely music tastes: classic rock, metal, alternative. Appreciates the sound and rhythm of the music more than the meaning behind the lyrics. 

ISFP: Most likely music tastes: rock, classical, alternative. Appreciates the rhythms and beat of songs and is very sensitive to the type of emotion the music evokes. 

INFP: Most likely music tastes: rock, metal, folk. Appreciates deep, meaningful lyrics and emotionally evocative music.

INTP: Most likely music tastes: rock, classical, metal. Likes dark and structurally complex pieces of music. Appreciates meaningful lyrics.

ESTP: Most likely music tastes: hip hop, electronic, rap. Likes fast-paced music that can be danced to, but doesn’t care as much about the actual lyrics.

ESFP: Most likely music tastes: alternative, rock, rap. Likes fast-paced music that can be danced to, but doesn’t care as much about the actual lyrics. Appreciates emotionally evocative music.

ENFP: Most likely music tastes: rock, alternative, pop. Appreciates deep, meaningful  lyrics and emotionally evocative music. Likes fast-paced, upbeat music. Eclectic taste.

ENTP: Most likely music tastes: rock, blues, indie. Eclectic taste. Appreciates meaningful lyrics.

ESTJ: Most likely music tastes: rock, electronic, pop. Appreciates the sound and rhythm of the music more than the meaning behind the lyrics. 

ESFJ: Most likely music tastes: musicals, pop, country. Appreciates emotionally evocative music. Appreciates the sound and rhythm of the music more than the meaning behind the lyrics. 

ENFJ: Most likely music tastes: world music, indie, alternative. Appreciates deep, meaningful lyrics and emotionally evocative music.

ENTJ: Most likely music tastes: rock, alternative, indie. Appreciates meaningful lyrics. Likes music that pumps them up and energizes them to accomplish tasks.





https://infj-mbti.tumblr.com/post/106640511443/myers-briggs-music-tastes
