Structure of a Prolog Program

Programs in most programming languages consist of functions of things like functions, variables, and modules. 

Prolog is a bit different, and its program consist of three main things:

Facts about objects and their relationships. Prolog objects are not objects in the sense of object-oriented programming,
but objects in the sense of logic. An object could be any value, e.g. a number, a string, a list, etc. 
Relationships between objects are treated as logical predicates as in first-order quantified logic.

Rules about objects and their relationships. For example, you might have the rule “if X and Y have the same parents, then they’re siblings”.

Questions that can be asked about objects and their relationships. These are similar to queries in a database system.

Facts and rules together form what is often called a knowledge base. Often, writing a Prolog program consists of 
creating a (sometimes very sophisticated!) knowledge base, plus queries on that knowledge base.



Programming in Prolog is very different from programming in a traditional procedural procedural language like Pascal. 
In Prolog you don't say how the program will work.

Prolog can be separated in two parts :
1. The Program
The program, sometimes called Database is a texte file (*.pl) that contain the facts and rules that will be used by
the user of the program. It contains all the relations that make this program.

2. The Query
When you launch a program you are in query modequery mode. This mode is represented by the sign ? - at the begining of
the line. In query mode you ask questions about relations described in the program.







Loading a program

loading First you have to launch your Prolog compiler, for this report we used the SWI-Prolog wich is a freeware. 
When Prolog is launched the ?- should appear meaning you are in query mode. 
The manier to launch a program depends of your compiler. 
For SWI-Prolog you can load a program by typing the cammand [file]. when the file of your program is file.pl. 
If you compiler is not SWI-Prolog you can also try the command reconsult(file). 
When you have done this you can use all the facts and rules that are contained in the program. 














